Here on Terra, today (TL8) 8 BILLION humans make up ~30% of the mass of land mammals, and our livestock about another ~60%.
That's ~560Mtonnes of human and ~1.12Gtonnes of our livestock., out of a total of 1.9Gtonnes of mammals . . .
Arthropods and other invertebrates probably match that figure.
~2Gtonnes of fish (left) in the oceans, too.

We’re going to need to know more about this to work out what kind of critters inhabit that planet, other than humans.
Guessing most terrestrial mammals won’t get much bigger than 200kg or so. The biomes won’t support it unless they’re solitary.

I figure that Zhdant doesn't have the same 'carrying capacity' as a TL8 Terra, even at its pre-Dzaqtlas industrial period . . .
. . .though the oceans are likely productive, a lot of the land surface is wasteland. It reminds me of Terra in the Permian, though with a much smaller ocean.

Definitely not. And we won’t have large ocean creatures either, at least not on Terran scale of whales and such.

Most of Dlieqiats is a huge desert, like the center of Pangea on Permian Terra.

Though pods of dolphin-like swimmers may be common.

Also, I don't think that the Zhdantia in the pre-Dzaqtlas (or any other tech) era use quite as much artificial nitrogen fertilizer as Terrans do in supporting terrestrial grain agriculture.
We use that fertilizer- artificially produced with fossil fuels- to support an extra 4 billion people and 20 billion meat animals.

And using that tech would be pointless in aquaculture.

Worse, it'd pollute the ocean . . .
I'm looking at a Zhdant with about no more than 20% of the carrying capacity of Terra at an equivalent tech of 7-8. Commensurately lower at lower TLs.
Lack of an equivalent grain agriculture, lack of same to support large numbers of terrestrial meat animals, lack of available fossil fuels to produce large amounts of nitrogen fertilizer anyway.
Meat animals would be foragers like pigs and goats instead of feedlot/alfalfa fed cows & sheep . . . the noql fit into this paradigm.

Everything in fine balance - tip the scales in either direction and you have famine.
The noql, of course, is another transplant, probably an invasive species…

Not as dire a place as Vland, but not as 'nice' a world as Terra.
I wonder if 'noql' were imported for the Droyne?

But the 20% mark fits with Tony’s comments about the First Dark Age and population stability.
A few million across the planet, in scattered subsistence level communities.
Stable growth and decline.

Yeah, I had Tony's off the cuff figure in mind when I began thinking about 'Well, what IS the biosphere like, in broad strokes, on Zhdant?' I started with some spitballing about biomass.
I based many of my assumptions of how things look in Zhdant's biosphere on Permian Terra; a place I've researched extensively. It's not identical, but similar in many ways.
Permian Terra is a rougher place to live, a quarter billion years ago, than modern Terra. The land is all mashed together into Pangea, the center of which is a massive desert not unlike Central and Eastern Dleqiats.