More musings on the Dzaqtlas; I think the reason that the Dzaqtlas killed so many humans (though not its 'primary' target) was due to the industrialized nature of Zhdant's society. I can assume at least 50% of the population lived in one or another urban area, which after the Dzaqtlas burned through and killed 20-40% of their populations would then turn into 'food deserts' and likely would not have offered access to clean water either once the transport and distibution systems collapsed.
Mortality among the city dwellers would then be near total, even among those who could flee . . .to where? Those living in 'rural' areas would lose the same percentages to the infection, but since they probably lived in, on, or near to the places foos was produced their 'secondary' mortality from starvation would be much less than in the cities.
I came on this line of reasoning musing about why the Black Death hadn't slain MORE than half of the population of Europe. Essentially everyone was spared a horrible death from 'secondary' starvation because at TL2-3 90% of the population is rural, not urban. After the Plague burned through, the survivors still lived among the food-producing areas, or were still producing it . . . comparatively few famines are reported, and almost none outside of cities that were no longer receiving shipments of food from the agricultural districts.
Dzaqtlas or not, a TL7 urban center without power, water or food distribution isn't a city, it's a charnel house . . .
I know that we all know this; I only mention it in terms of what was going through my mind in trying to think about the modes in which the Dzaqtlas (as a phenomenon, not the actual disease itself) initially carried off ~80% of the population of Zhdant, but didn't kill EVERYONE.
I think we decided early on that the Human population wasn't the primary target of the Ancient's 'binary' plague, and thus it had a high but not TOTAL rate of lethality. In my mind the biologies of the Droyne and Terran biospheres were similar enough that what was 100% lethal to Droyne was still dangerous for but not entirely deadly to Humans . . .
A rapid-onset and high lethality disease like the Dzaqtlas would have an instantaneous effect on let's say the Terra of today equal to or WORSE than it's effect on TL7 Zhdant . . .
. . .leaving out panic-launched nuclear exchanges which the Zhdantia didn't have to worry about. Our economy is so urbanized and integrated and reliant on fragile information & transportation networks that I think we'd lose a much greater proportion of our population to it. Even given our better epidemiology.
