The zhdobrdievl Arnietl trudges down the ridgeline towards the valley of the Standtievets.
  He’s a wanderer, though not like most of those who move from settlement to settlement, looking to get food for work or a chance to fit in. He has a deeper mission.
  ‘Zhdobrbdievl’ doesn’t carry a great deal of good will. He’s a Deviant. His sect wears the <turban> to denote his devotion to the Discipline. He could hide it, but he won’t.
  Because he brings a message, even to those who would not hear it. Arnietl brings a message, and it’s one of hope, of freedom, and salvation. From the Night, from the superstitions, and from the Plague.
  Not everyone wants to hear his message.
  That’s why he has a rifle and a pistol. The Desert is tough enough, but the people who live in it are tougher still. They’ve HAD to be. Since the Plague came, no one has had an easy life. The works of the Ones Who Came Before are wrecked, their makers fled and dead, and life in The Desert holds on with cracked fingernails.
  But Arnietl will change that, or die. Plenty before him have.

He knows that the Plague isn’t the work of Gods, or even demons, though it tore the world apart when it slew nine of ten people alive in the World, and all of the Chirpers. 
  His teacher’s teachers survived the Plague, and before then they’d learned the secrets of the Discipline from the Chirpers. The Discipline lets the Adepts, like him, access the powers of the mind.
  An orphan from a dying band of Desert wanderers, cast loose when the Works of the Old Ones failed, the Disciples found him and discovered his ability to access the Discipline. 
  They fed him, and taught him, and charged him with the mission to bring the power of the Discipline to others lost like he had been. It’s his goal, and his mission, and his life now.
  Standtievets sits on the highlands above the lowland plains. People live there, people in desperation, because they live under the fist of evil ones. Exploiters, men with old tech, men who rule with iron and fire. Men bereft of the Discipline.
  Arnietl will free them, or die trying.
Write to John Waterman


11:47 PM
the 