The Dzaqtlas plague is unlike anything the Zhodani have ever experienced. Until it was unwittingly unleashed on the world, the worst disease (ziltokpa) they’d ever had to deal with were fungal infections and opportunistic bacterial infections from wounds. 
The rapid onset of the plague took the Zhodani by surprise. It infected everyone who came into contact with it, without exception, and mortality was nearly 100% in the earliest days.
Before the Dzaqtlas, Zhdant was a highly industrialized society. At least half if not more of the population lived in or near an urban center. Cities became death zones as it burned through the population. First the medical infrastructure collapsed, then the food distribution systems, then the water processing. Tens of millions died of the plague in the first few months, and many millions more died from starvation or violence in the chaos that followed.
Those living in the rural areas were spared, but only for a while. When the cities emptied from panic, those fleeing the Dzaqtlas brought it with them. Wherever humans went, death followed.
Particularly fearsome was the manner in which it killed. Three stages of Dzaqtlas infection have been recorded, in increasing levels of severity.
INCUBATION
The incubation period begins shortly after initial exposure. This stage lasts 1D+2 days. Symptoms are usually mild and may include coughing, headache, fever, sniffles, mild diarrhea. Some victims have no symptoms at all. Roll End 6+ each day; fail, and you proceed to stage 2, Sickness. Reduce all physical characteristics by -1 for the duration of this stage.
SICKNESS
This is the primary active stage of the Dzaqtlas. Now you’re in trouble. Symptoms include all of the above plus increasing diarrhea and delirium. It is not unusual to have bloody stools. Contact with any bodily fluids results in infection; airborne contact can also cause infection - roll End 6+ to avoid. The victim may feel an uncontrollable desire to wander; this is not impeded by sleep. Sleepwalking plague carriers are common. Roll End 8+ each day of this stage. Success delays it for another day; failure means the disease has progressed to the third and final stage, Walking Dead. A critical success (12 on 2D) ends the progression; congratulations, you’re safe. Reduce all physical characteristics by -2 and reduce Int by -1 for the duration of this stage.
WALKING DEAD
In the third and final stage of the Dzaqtlas the victim appears alive, but in reality he’s in the final stages. The victim’s blood is no longer functioning and many organs have begun to shut down.  Lesions begin to form on the skin; these break and release pathogen-laden blood and pus. In this phase, any contact with the victim will result in infection as the body sheds pathogen in aerosolized and liquid form. Even as the muscles deteriorate, the victim continues to wander, spreading the disease to new hosts. Delirium from hypoxia are the major symptoms. Yet even in this late stage, it is still possible to survive the Dzaqtlas. Roll End 10+ each day of this stage. Success delays death for another day; failure means the victim  crashes and bleeds out. A critical success (12 on 2D) ends the progression. Lose 1 point from all physical and ½ point from all mental traits per day spent in this stage. Reduce all physical characteristics by -3 and reduce  Intelligence by 1D + 2 for the duration of this stage.
PSIONICS
Psionic talents can be used to cure it at any phase. See the Psionics section for more details.