Jo'zdiezzanj - Pilot and xenobiologist/clairvoyant ("Jodie")
Fesheqel - Engineer and linguist/telekinetic ("Fesh")
Oziez - Gunner and comms specialist/healer ("Ozie")
Miafa Iiabr - Navigator and archaeologist/teleprojectionist ("Miafa")

The Ship: Viaj Tavrcheva (Sublime Truth), a Ninz-class scout

Tavrcheva - elevate to a high degree of moral or spiritual purity or excellence.

Vlezhdrich - Dark Star (-rich = dark)

Scene 1

Ext. A primeval jungle, on a strange world

Cast of Characters:

Jo'zdiezzanj - Pilot and xenobiologist/clairvoyant ("Jodie")

Fesheqel - Engineer and linguist/telekinetic ("Fesh")

Oziez - Gunner and comms specialist/healer ("Ozie")

Miafa Iiabr - Navigator and archaeologist/teleprojectionist ("Miafa")

All have training in Telepathy.

Three explorers, two men and one woman, crouch on a knoll overlooking a wide valley. On the other side of the valley they see the ruins of an ancient stone structure, possibly of human construction.

As they discuss the best way to approach the ruin, a fourth person joins them.

Fesheqel

Jodie, what the hell? We agreed you should wait with the ship. Someone has to watch our backs.

JO'ZDiezzanj

I set the computer to alert me if it detects anything suspicious. It'll be fine. Besides, Fesh, you need me, unless there's another xenobiologist here?

FESHEQEL scowls and starts to argue, but is cut off by the other woman, OZIEZ.

OZIEZ

She's right, Fesh. We need her knowledge, and she's clairvoyant, which we'll also need to delve that ruin. Can't do that by radio.

FeSHEQEL

But what if something happens to her? Then we're down a pilot, and there's no other ship in this system.

Jo'ZDIEZZANJ

Come on, Fesh, we're all essential here.
 
Anyway, we've been scouting this cluster for five weeks, almost a full season, and found nothing. Now, we finally find a  planet with actual LIFE and you want me to stay behind? I don't think so.

Miafa liabr

Jodie's a big girl now, Fesh. 

FESHEQEL

But - 

Jo'ZDIEZZANJ

I'll be fine, Fesh. If it helps I'll stay close to you and that rifle. You can be the big hero.

FESHEQEL relaxes a bit and hefts his rifle. JO'ZDIEZZANJ and OZIEZ exchange amused looks.

JO'ZDIEZZANJ

(telepathically)

Wears his thoughts on his forehead, doesn't he?

OZIEZ

(telepathically)

Pretty much. Save your power, you're gonna need it.

Jo'ZDIEZZANJ

(telepathically)

Thanks, mom. I'll be good.


